BP-2603: Release notes (2026-05-26) (#291)
SpecterOps/bloodhound-docs: docs/resources/release-notes/summary.mdx

| 2026-05-26 | v9.2.0 | No release | v2.13.0 | No release |

This release improves Explore workflows, expands Cypher query capabilities for PostgreSQL backends, and tightens OpenGraph validation. Key highlights include:

- **Explore workflow improvements**: Added Eligible Roles in the Entity Panel and automatic node selection from search results.
- **Cypher query enhancements**: Expanded Cypher support with new functions and clauses for more powerful queries on PostgreSQL backends.
- **OpenGraph validation updates**: Tightened kind validation for reserved `tag_` prefixes and updated node schema guidance for extension developers.

### <Icon icon="check-circle" /> Enhancements

| Component | Update | Summary |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Explore | [Eligible Roles in the Entity Panel](/resources/release-notes/2026-05-26#eligible-roles-in-the-entity-panel) | Review eligible and approver roles for supported Azure principals directly in the Entity Panel. |
| Explore | [Search Result Node Selection](/resources/release-notes/2026-05-26#search-result-node-selection) | Open the Entity Panel automatically when you select a search result. |

> | Cypher | [Relationship and Endpoint Filtering](/resources/release-notes/2026-05-26#relationship-and-endpoint-filtering) | Inspect relationships and their start and end nodes within matched paths. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Cypher | [Relationship and Node Filtering Support](/resources/release-notes/2026-05-26#relationship-and-endpoint-filtering) | Utilize `nodes()`, `relationships()`, `startNode()`, and `endNode` clauses in cypher to better match desired paths. |
```

Reviewer: Then remove the separate `nodes` section.

| Cypher | [Path Node Inspection](/resources/release-notes/2026-05-26#path-node-inspection) | Use `nodes()` to access ordered nodes in a matched path. |
| Cypher | [List Expansion](/resources/release-notes/2026-05-26#list-expansion) | Use `UNWIND` to expand list values into rows. |
| Cypher | [List Navigation](/resources/release-notes/2026-05-26#list-navigation) | Use `head()` and `tail()` to inspect list values returned by Cypher expressions. |
| Cypher | [Query Result Sorting](/resources/release-notes/2026-05-26#query-result-sorting) | Sort results in ascending or descending order in `RETURN` and `WITH` clauses. |
| Cypher | [Multi-part Query Support](/resources/release-notes/2026-05-26#multi-part-query-support) | Chain query parts for more reliable multi-step queries. |

> | OpenGraph | [Stronger OpenGraph Kind Validation](/resources/release-notes/2026-05-26#stronger-opengraph-kind-validation) | Update custom kinds if using the reserved `tag_` prefix to avoid validation failures. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| OpenGraph | [Stronger OpenGraph Kind Validation](/resources/release-notes/2026-05-26#stronger-opengraph-kind-validation) | The `tag_` prefix is now reserved in BloodHound. Update your custom kinds if necessary to avoid validation failures. |
```

> | OpenGraph | [Updated Node Schema](/resources/release-notes/2026-05-26#updated-node-schema) | See how the `environmentid` and `collected` properties are used in the node JSON schema. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| OpenGraph | [Updated Node Schema](/resources/release-notes/2026-05-26#updated-node-schema) | We've updated how the `environmentid` and `collected` properties are used in the node JSON schema. |
```
